Well, I came to a probably point of action instead of just ranting about it for a few days now. 

The solution is based on our existing development architecture at [fountane](fountane.com) and hence the explanation so you don't take it for what it is and understand that
you can possibly solve it in an easier fashion. 

**Problem Statement** : get updated bundle for an existing react native app during development

### Solutions 
Before we get to the solution, the question of what needs to be done is to be answered. 

- We need a way to host the development bundle at some place in the existing arch
- This bundle needs to be version tracked to avoid collisions 
- The app needs to switch dynamic bundle urls when in dev and to the static bundle when not in dev 

Finally, to the solutions without having to deal with all this manually.

#### [livebundle](https://www.livebundle.io/)
**note**: know that it's still actively being developed so I leave that on your judgement if you wish to use it or not

the setup involves a cli tool from livebundle in the code's repo that can handle the uploading of your bundle assets to let's say azure and/or s3 (still being tested) and this is where I have to make a few mods. 
I cannot use the s3 plugin, so I'll be modifying it to create a similar plugin for MinIO, which is something we use for development cloud storage sandbox, I add a few buckets for each project and I have no new service to maintain, I just use the one that we've been maintaining for a while now.

This is the simplest one, I just setup livebundle as mentioned in the docs and I'm done with

#### Self hosted EXPO static updates server 
The other involves combining a certain set of features from expo and simple file uploading servers. For devs working with a single product, needing something like this you can use the expo service altogether or if you have to self host the updates server you can use [expo-serve](https://github.com/barelyhuman/expo-serve) it's a simple cli I built forgetting a server started in the react native repo and you can host this under a reverse-proxy using pm2 if you wish to. 

Life isn't as simple for me though since I'll have to write the solution replicating what we have written above.

1. First thing to do would be to add expo-modules and expo-updates configuration to the existing project and that's well documented on expo's own docs 
2. Next, we write a koa/polka/express/nextjs server who's only purpose is to upload files to different buckets on the MinIO storage based on the API Params (expo updates gives slugs and versioning data in every request it makes to the server)
3. Using the slug and request, we decide which bucket to dump the builds into
4. Next, we write a simple js script or bash script or curl script , whatever, to upload the files from the local exported bundle using expo's cli. This bundle is now uploaded on one of our buckets and we are basically done. 
5. expo-updates internally handles the updation of the bundle as needed.
6. To separate this behaviour to only work on Debug builds, you add the expo configuration in the `AndroidManifest` in the `debug` folder and for iOS, I maintain 2 scheme's `App` and `AppDev` , so `AppDev` implements the `Expo.plist` to handle updates and `App` doesn't. 


For the last step, it's possible that you don't use the development apps like I do, which is using schemes and variants to separate concerns, so you can actually disable expo updates from the `Expo.plist` and `AndroidManifest.xml` and instead use `app.json` to define if it's in prod mode or dev mode while building, which get's static in the bundle and then you can try the JS expo-updates to handle whether to download the update or not. (**this is theoretical**) 

Another solution I know that'll work is that you can use runtime versions to handle this for you, by specifying runtime version (`dev-v1`) will only get updates for other bundles that are in that runtime version. This is going to stay as is, cause it's defined in the `.xml` and `.plist` and doesn't change on the bundle updates.

So any patch made to the `v1` of the dev builds will go to the dev-v1 bundle. Though I'd suggest using strict minor semver, since while developing there's a good change you'll update the native deps a lot and using the major version as a parameter will just increase the number of releases you create. Add in react-native-reanimated and you have to move to `dev-v2` and generate a new build , add another dep and we are at `dev-v3`, thus creating a discrepancy between the dev versions and prod versions. Easier to just go minor version changes so that production version is still `v2` but dev versions are `dev-v2.1` etc , and updates are downloaded based on that on the dev runtime. 

This basically is a blog post at this point but that's the solution I have right now, will be attempting to implement this on a demo repository soon and we'll know if it all works as expected or I find a newer problem that needs a solution.
