Well, another day with production level stuff and got really frustrated having to send developer / internal API builds for each set of bug fixes I made on the app, plus the debugging experience while bearable on normal days wasn't as enjoyable since "moving to production" was a priority and these days normally end up with me building something to solve the problem.

Mostly smaller libs, some wrapper around a tedious process etc etc, but well today I just went around to ask for help and to read through a few existing codebases that are in production and have a similar setup. Here's the most common findings

1. Lots and lots of scripts, like... lots!
2. Expo / Codepush setups
3. Embraced the issues and wrote a document on what to do in each case.

Now, all had a common tool, Fastlane and I do have fastlane setup but I don't use it for anything other than build generation.
This is where the 1st set of repos went all in, they had fastlane scripts, called from Makefile tasks and a collection of bash scripts for every instance that could exist.

from building for internal team to moving a build from internal to production for play store, to literally handling git level tagging and branch management plus nightly builds for all of that. Pretty impressive stuff, and I like it. I mean, I could make it a little more graceful since I'll be starting from a better base but I can understand the reason the devs did that , considering I went through about 100 commits to see where it all started......

Now, the 2nd option seems simple but comes with issues I don't want to deal with. I don't want to wait for expo to fix something or codepush to figure out something till I just sit there and wait, which is something I can't do when moving to production. Plus, setting up codepush for every client I deal with is the worst possible idea for maintenance, same goes for expo and hence the solution isn't something I can pick up due to my work. For others, it might be the right solution.

and then comes the 3rd one, well, I just can't, I need a solution and good workflow to push to play store and ios store without ripping my hair and while being able to hotfix stuff during development.

A recent app I worked on, takes about 15 mins to build on a Mac Mini Intel, this is based on it starting and setting up everything from scratch, certs, deps and then running the fastlane lane to build it and then publish to diawi , or publish to app store , and about the same for android with it's relevant targets.

This means, if it's just a single line change that came up and needed to be tested, I still end up spending 30 mins of the QA guy , just waiting for the builds.

#### Is there a solution?

I think [livebundle](https://github.com/electrode-io/livebundle) is valid solution just for dev builds but it doesn't support anything other than local fs and azure and maybe experimental support for aws s3 which i'm monitoring.

Since it depends on simple JS plugins, I might end up helping the dev write one to upload these to static places like firebase / vercel / netlify, and then letting dev builds have access to these QR codes or links.

Still a theory , since I don't know how much time it'll take to get that working since the development hotfixes is my primary goal at this point, the production releases to the stores take several hours to get through the review process anyways, so not a concern and can't rush much with it , anyways.

---

Repos's I learned a lot from today

1. [https://github.com/artsy/eigen](https://github.com/artsy/eigen)
2. [https://github.com/hello-nyxo/nyxo-app](https://github.com/hello-nyxo/nyxo-app)
3. [https://github.com/flaque/quirk](https://github.com/flaque/quirk)
4. [https://github.dev/mrousavy/Colorwaver](https://github.dev/mrousavy/Colorwaver)
