its easier to calmly read other's code understand the structure (if there's one) and then improve on it as needed.
A lot of times, if you plan on working on the codebase longer then you are better of making changes as you go to improve it
bit by bit.

This may include changing the architechtural pieces of it or maybe something simpler as changing the development bundler
to be something faster.

Iterative development is something that a lot of people do so a faster compiler is often needed, also one of the reasons I can't
stick to typescript, I can't create `tsc` type static analysis builds with `esbuild` right now. Once `tsc` has a faster alternative
I might start using typescript a lot more in production apps.

My current favorite is still using JSDoc and running the code through `tsc` if needed, this allows me to create non-static typed
bundles or just directly write the target code, so most of the time to test something is working or not, I don't need a transpiler
in place. I just use the JSDoc compiled declarations generated by `tsc` / `esbuild` to help with auto-completion and quick
information about the function being used.

Continuing on the initial point, the change might even mean that you end up with code that looks bad and hard to understand
and these might create friction when you are writing new additions, in cases like these there's a few solutions

1. If the code is tiny, rewrite it properly if you can in the given deadline, if not, add that as a task to the backlog.
2. If you understand the business logic fully but know that it was a harder than usual then add in as many comments explaining areas as necessary. This will
   help us later when we do plan to rewrite it.

There's more but these are what I generally do, you might get even better solutions if you think about it.

The perfect codebase doesn't exist, never will, the point is to migrate and improve things you can.
