Warning, rant....

everytime i create a mono repo, my first issue is that it's way too much context for one repo, handling mobile, backend, frontend code in just one repo,

- remembering which duplicate file name belongs to which specifically,
- what will I break when I modify a certain helper, run tests for all 3 platforms when doing something like this
- somehow maintaining the sanity of the monorepo's structure without going crazy

on the other hand, doing 3 separate repos for the same structure still ends up being problamatic since we have to switch context multiple times to make changes, which a small laptop screen can't handle, so I need a monitor as a solution.

but then maintaining 3 repos also means there's no more shared code, you have to copy paste from one to the other the same god damn thing everytime you fix a bug in one of your helpers and now it's super irritating when you have a deadline coming up.

While I try to follow the "Go slow, and fix things" approach there are cases where I have to speed up a certain task and running around 3 codebases isn't a nice experience.

Another issue with multiple repos is the monitoring of things that have been done, for example, I use gitlab CI for most of my work and there's cases where I fix a certain ci issue in one repo and might forget to add it to the other repo cause "it's just a patch, i'll test it and then move it to the other repo" and after a week of testing the patch you don't remember that you were supposed to move it to the other repo's CI file.

Congrats, you screwed up the one job you have. Anyway, why the rant then? Clearly the issue with a monorepo are a lot less bothersome than the one's you have with multiple repos.

Yes, it's just that I went through a version of [baadal](https://github.com/barelyhuman/baadal) that I'm using at work which also has the react native setup with the nextjs setup and since nextjs doesn't like being in a sub-folder in a classic mono repo, I've got a big chunk of folders pertaining to nextjs and then one `native` folder with contents for the react native app and it having it's own set of folders and there's a few duplicate folders there that I need to maintain since it's not a react-native-web based setup there's 2 folders of `components`, 2 folders for `lib` and so on and so forth, and I edited the wrong file and pushed it.

So, a childish rant? Yes.
